content/page/about.mdx, before:

---
sections:
  - title: Project Goals
    body: "*Feeding Fairness* brings together multiple data sources through interactive maps and reports on food access, grocery market concentration, economic disadvantage, and residential segregation. We aim to:\_\n\n1. Communicate and visualize these measures to better understand the impacts of a consolidating grocery retail market on food access, particularly in communities of color which already experience disproportionate inequities due to racist policies and practices;\n2. Report and compare these measures in communities, counties, and states across the country to uncover trends and intersections in inequities;\_\n3. Make clean data accessible for the public to easily download and use for further exploration; and\_\n4. Advocate for solutions that build a better food system through equity and accountability.\n"
  - title: How to Use
    body: "There are many ways to use this tool. You can visualize trends in the data, identify places where trends intersect, and compare measures at different places, ranging from states to counties to individual neighborhoods or Census tracts.\n\nUse the **Map** to visualize data across the country and region. You can zoom in to an individual Census tract or town, and zoom all the way out to see the full country. Click on the side-bar menu to explore data in a number of different ways: Visualize data by topic, highlight areas on the map, or filter for specific states. Click [Map](https://rgdv.vercel.app/map) to get started mapping.\_\n\nUse **Reports** to learn more about a place. Search for a state, county, or individual neighborhoods (Census tracts) to see summary statistics for that specific place, how measures have changed over time, and how they compare to other places across the state or country. Click the [State Report](https://rgdv.vercel.app/state) to get started by searching for your state.\_\n\nUse **Case Studies** to learn about a specific topic, ranging from the top ranking places for corporate consolidation, how trends have changed, and insights into the data. Click on [Case Studies](https://rgdv.vercel.app/case-studies) to explore.\n"
  - title: Team
    body: "This project is a collaboration between [Rural Advancement Foundation International-USA](https://www.rafiusa.org/) (RAFI-USA) and the [Open Spatial Lab](https://datascience.uchicago.edu/research/open-spatial-lab/) at the [Data Science Institute at the University of Chicago](https://datascience.uchicago.edu/). It is made possible by the generous support of the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation.\n\nThe project team includes:\_\n\n* Aaron Johnson, Policy Co-Director, RAFI\n* Melanie Canales, Challenging Corporate Power Project Manager, RAFI\n* David Uminsky, Executive Director, University of Chicago DSI\n* Susan Paykin, Program Lead, University of Chicago DSI Open Spatial Lab\n* Dylan Halpern Technical Lead, University Chicago DSI Open Spatial Lab\n"
---

## About

*Exploring the impacts of structural racism & unfair markets on food access in the U.S.*

How does a consolidating grocery industry affect food accessibility for communities across the United States?  What are the structural conditions driving the decision to close one grocery store and open another? 			&#x9;

This project, *Feeding Fairness*, visualizes data to help explore and find answers to these questions. We aim to better understand the structural factors that contribute to food insecurity in communities across the U.S., experienced at disproportionately high rates in rural and non-white communities. Specifically, we consider the most basic place to access food - the grocery store - and its relationships to inequitable outcomes. 

***

This project is a collaboration between [Rural Advancement Foundation International-USA](https://www.rafiusa.org/) (RAFI-USA) and the [Open Spatial Lab](https://datascience.uchicago.edu/research/open-spatial-lab/) at the [Data Science Institute at the University of Chicago](https://datascience.uchicago.edu/). It is made possible by the generous support of the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation.

Commit message:

add citation and license info

content/page/about.mdx, after:

---
sections:
  - title: Project Goals
    body: "The Grocery Gap Atlas brings together multiple data sources through interactive maps and reports on food access, grocery market concentration, economic disadvantage, and residential segregation. We aim to:\_\n\n1. Communicate and visualize data to better understand the impacts of a consolidating grocery retail market on food access, particularly in communities of color, many of which already experience disproportionate inequities;\n2. Report and compare these measures in communities, counties, and states to uncover trends and intersections in inequities;\_\n3. Make clean data accessible for the public to easily download and use for further exploration; and\_\n4. Advocate for solutions that build a better food system through equity and accountability.\n"
  - title: How to Use
    body: "There are many ways to use this tool. You can visualize trends in the data, identify places where trends intersect, and compare measures at different places, ranging from states to counties to individual neighborhoods or Census tracts.\n\nUse the **Map** to visualize data across the country and region. You can zoom in to an individual Census tract or town, and zoom all the way out to see the full country. Click on the side-bar menu to explore data in a number of different ways: Visualize data by topic, highlight areas on the map, or filter for specific states. Click [Map](https://rgdv.vercel.app/map) to get started mapping.\_\n\nUse **Reports** to learn more about a place. Search for a state, county, or individual neighborhoods (Census tracts) to see summary statistics for that specific place, how measures have changed over time, and how they compare to other places across the state or country. Click the [State Report](https://rgdv.vercel.app/state) to get started by searching for your state.\_\n\nUse **Case Studies** to learn about a specific topic, ranging from the top ranking places for corporate consolidation, how trends have changed, and insights into the data. Click on [Case Studies](https://rgdv.vercel.app/case-studies) to explore.\n"
  - title: Team
    body: "This project is a collaboration between [Rural Advancement Foundation International-USA](https://www.rafiusa.org/) (RAFI-USA) and the [Open Spatial Lab](https://datascience.uchicago.edu/research/open-spatial-lab/) at the [Data Science Institute at the University of Chicago](https://datascience.uchicago.edu/). It is made possible by the generous support of the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation.\n\nThe project team includes:\_\n\n* Aaron Johnson, Policy Co-Director, RAFI\n* Melanie Canales, Challenging Corporate Power Project Manager, RAFI\n* David Uminsky, Executive Director, University of Chicago DSI\n* Susan Paykin, Program Lead, University of Chicago DSI Open Spatial Lab\n* Dylan Halpern Technical Lead, University Chicago DSI Open Spatial Lab\n"
  - title: Citation
    body: |
      Please cite data, visualizations, and findings from this project as:

      \[\[***Coming Soon]]***
  - title: License
    body: >
      The Grocery Gap Atlas and all associated outputs are licensed under the
      open source [GNU General Public
      License](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.en.html).


      ![](/uploads/gpl3.png)
---

## About

*Exploring the impacts of structural racism & unfair markets on food access in the U.S.*

How does a consolidating grocery industry affect food accessibility for communities across the United States?  What are the structural conditions driving the decision to close one grocery store and open another? 			&#x9;

This project, *Feeding Fairness*, visualizes data to help explore and find answers to these questions. We aim to better understand the structural factors that contribute to food insecurity in communities across the U.S., experienced at disproportionately high rates in rural and non-white communities. Specifically, we consider the most basic place to access food - the grocery store - and its relationships to inequitable outcomes. 

***

This project is a collaboration between [Rural Advancement Foundation International-USA](https://www.rafiusa.org/) (RAFI-USA) and the [Open Spatial Lab](https://datascience.uchicago.edu/research/open-spatial-lab/) at the [Data Science Institute at the University of Chicago](https://datascience.uchicago.edu/). It is made possible by the generous support of the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation.
